An ISR stands for Interrupt Service Routine.
In simple terms —
An ISR is a special function in your program that runs automatically when an interrupt occurs.
Detailed Explanation
When a specific event happens — like:
a button press,
a timer overflow,
or a sensor signal change,
the microcontroller pauses the main program and jumps immediately to execute the ISR function.

attachInterrupt(digitalPinToInterrupt(2), toggle, FALLING);
void toggle() {
  digitalWrite(13, !digitalRead(13));
}
Here:
The event is the FALLING edge (button press: signal goes from HIGH → LOW).
The ISR is the function named toggle().
When the interrupt happens, toggle() runs instantly, turning the LED on or off.

Triggered automatically by hardware or software interrupt events.
Runs immediately, interrupting normal code execution.
Should be short and fast — never use long delays or Serial.print() inside.
After ISR finishes, the CPU returns to where it left off in the main program.


How can an MCU handle multiple tasks concurrently (like LED blinking and buzzer triggering)?
How an MCU handles multiple tasks concurrently
Even though a microcontroller (MCU) like the ESP32 has limited processing capability and usually runs one instruction at a time,
it can appear to do multiple tasks at once using timers and interrupts.
Answer:
 By using timers and interrupts for independent tasks.
Explanation:
Let’s say:
Task 1 → Blink an LED every 1 second
Task 2 → Activate a buzzer when a button is pressed
Without interrupts, the MCU would have to poll (keep checking) each input one by one — slow and inefficient.
With timers and interrupts, the MCU can:
Use a timer interrupt to toggle the LED every 1 second.
The timer runs in the background; when 1 second passes, it triggers an ISR that blinks the LED.
Use an external interrupt for the button.
When the button is pressed, an ISR runs instantly to turn on the buzzer.
So, both tasks seem to run simultaneously, even though the MCU executes them very fast in sequence.
Example Concept
Event 	      Mechanism	          What Happens
LED blinking	Timer interrupt	    Toggles LED at fixed intervals
Button press	External interrupt	Immediately triggers buzzer
Main loop	    Free	              Can run other tasks or stay idle
Analogy
It’s like a chef (MCU) cooking one dish (main code),
but when the oven timer beeps (timer interrupt), he checks the oven (blinks LED),
and if the doorbell rings (external interrupt), he quickly answers it (triggers buzzer),
then returns to cooking — all tasks seem parallel.


What happens if long code is placed inside an ISR?
 Answer: B. Slows down or blocks other interrupts
ISRs should be short — long ISRs delay other critical events.

What is the best practice for writing ISRs?
Answer: C. Keep them short and efficient
Do minimal work, set flags, and process later in loop().

When two interrupts occur at the same time, how does the MCU respond?
Answer: C. Executes the higher-priority ISR first, then the other
MCUs have interrupt priority systems to manage multiple requests.

Extension
To make two LEDs blink at different rates using timers, what approach should be used?
 Answer: B. Use two independent hardware timers with separate ISRs
 Each timer controls one LED’s timing without interference.
